Chinese - English Exchange at Whole Foods
Thursday, April 8, 2018
11:20am-1:20pm


Online Description of the meetup
Hello all,


Newbies are super welcome so please come and join us! We don't bite! It'll be a super casual time with awesome conversations (at all levels) in Mandarin, English, and various mixes of both. The crowd is usually around 10 to 20 people and people pop in and out at all times from 10am to 12:30pm. Usually we head out for lunch in Chinatown afterwards!


We meet on the second floor of the Bowery Whole Foods on 95 East Houston Street. It's a great space with lots of sunlight and a nice view. Also there's plenty of seats and good food and drinks downstairs!


Best,


[redacted]
Description of the meetup / Space
This morning I went to a Sunday meetup that was held in the Mezzanine on the second story of the Whole Foods on Houston street. 
  

The space was brightly lit with big windows facing the street, plain concrete floors, and long tables meant for eight chairs. Cheery jazz and pop music lilted brightly throughout the space, echoing off the hard surfaces, mixing in with the muddled background buzz. The entire time I was there today from 11:20 am to 1pm the Mezzanine was not too crowded, with about 10% of the seats occupied earlier in the morning, and about 25% of the seats occupied at 1pm. Most people in the space appeared to just be hanging out, singly or in pairs. The space was quite large with about 100 seats, and wrapped around in a large L shape.


When I first walked up the stairs I was slightly late for the meetup, as it officially started at 11am. I walked slowly around the space, looking for the meetup group, peering at different people, but didn’t see anyone who caught my eye - I expected and failed to see any group of mixed Asians and non-Asians talking animatedly. In fact I only saw one of two groups larger than 3 people, and none of these seemed to fit the bill. I even walked all the way around the corner of the L-shaped space to the space closer to where the bathrooms were situated at the end of the mezzanine and didn’t see the group.


As I walked back the way I had come slowly, eyeing each table, at what was more-or-less the center of the mezzanine a pair of Asian men who looked to be in their mid-30s caught my eye, and hailed me to come sit down with them. As they waved me over I asked “meetup? Is this the meetup?” 


SIDEBAR
Following my prior convention I will use italics to denote dialogue or speech in english and bold to denote dialogue or speech in chinese since people tend to switch back and forth frequently. I will tend to write my translated interpretation of what I heard in chinese to make it easier for readers, but I will include the pinyin spellings in parentheses when relevant. I will show the actual characters when the word has more nuanced meanings that could get easily lost in translation. 
	

"Yes, yes, come sit here” they said, offering me the seat across from the man I will call         Tsung-han (TH), and next to the man I will call Horton. Tsung-han was of average build, somewhat tan, with slicked back hair, long on top and buzzed on the sides. Horton had shorter, wavy, somewhat messy hair. Both men were dressed rather casually. Horton was taller, had a more “outdoorsy” REI-style clothing - like an orange “technical” jacket, and had 3-4 shopping bags with him, full of food. He had ostensibly made some purchases before coming to the meetup group, likely from stores other than Whole Foods since the bags were plastic, not Whole Foods’ usual large heavy paper bags. Also, he had some food items that I am not sure are carried by whole foods such as a pack of chinese-style bread buns, like those in the photo below (not a photo from the actual event)
  



As I sat down and took off my backpack and started taking cursory notes on my phone, the two men resumed their prior conversation as if there had been little interruption, in a brisk, high-level cadence that I had great difficulty understanding. I caught a few words here and there - “Taiwan” “Xi Jinping” leading me to speculate that they were talking politics, although my speculation was refuted later when I inquired. I notice that they are speaking at a relatively low volume. Much quieter and less animated than the people at the meetup on Thursday, and given that the level of background noise and music is louder at the Whole Foods, it makes the listening experience a bit harder.




As I settled into my seat I took a closer look at Tsung-han as he talked to Horton. It occurred to me that I had seen him before at this kind of meetup, although it must have been over a year ago. I broke into the conversation saying, “Hello, hello I am Nick (Ni-ke), Nicholas (Ni-ke-la-si)” Tsung-han and Horton introduced themselves to me in Chinese as well. I said pointedly to Tsung-han “I think I know you. I’ll come to these meetups in a year” Catching my mistake on past-vs-future Tsung-han corrected me “a few years ago”. He said patiently with the air of a teacher. He didn’t seem to respond to my assertion that we had met, his face remaining calm and patient rather than showing any sign of recognition or disagreement. 




Thinking back to the conversation I heard a moment ago when I sat down I ask “were you guys talking about politics just now? I thought I overheard something about Taiwan and Xi Zhenping” Tsung-han denied it emphatically, raising his voice slightly, and began asking me questions in Chinese that was above my level of understanding, as I have a small vocabulary. “Are you interested in politics (Zhèngzhì)?” he asked me. “(Zhèngzhì)?” I replied, not knowing the chinese word for it. “Zhèngzhì is politics” Tsung-han supplied, frowning slightly.




Horton opens one of his shopping bags, and peels off the plastic lid on a package of what looks like salami arranged on a plastic plate, places it on the table, and offers it to me and Horton. I oblige, taking the first slice of salami, and pop it into my mouth. It tastes differently from how I expected, more like a hot-dog than salami. Horton takes a slice himself and offers me another, which I refuse.


Resuming their conversation Tsung-han and Horton seem to be discussing what they have for breakfast: “eat” he stutters “eat two slices of ham, ate an apple, one cup of coffee, one cup of …” … “tomorrow I have to take three shifts at work...”


A few minutes after I arrive, many more people start showing up. The elderly white man from the April 5th meetup comes and sits down next to Horton across from me. He is of average height, wearing a blue hoodie, is balding with wisps of white hair, bushy eyebrows, and intense blue-green eyes. I introduce myself to him as well in chinese as Horton and Tsung-han continue their conversation, “Hi I’m Nicholas” he replieds “Hi I’m Fernando”, surprised at his hispanic sounding name I ask “Are you American?” and he replies “yes”. 


A few more people arrive. Alex, a thin, 5’-11”, white guy in his late 20s or early 30s sits down next to Fernando. Next to Alex, a cheery looking European girl sits down. She has light-brown hair tied up in a ponytail and wears a T-shirt and jeans. I call her Ella. 


A couple, whom I name Matt and Yu-Tse walks in and sits next to Alex. The boy is a white guy in his late 20s with light skin whom , short brown hair, and a black jacket. The girl appears to be chinese, also in her late 20s in a rose-pink dress. They seem to be regulars, smiling and waving at people already seated at the table, and take a seat closer to the windows at the other end of the table from me, and begin talking to each other, while taking out some bags and putting them on the table in front of them, sitting next to Ella. Alex introduces himself to the people around him and I overhear him say in confident, deliberate chinese that he is Czech and does computer programming for a living.


Next to Horton, a young Chinese man with a sits down. He has wavy medium-length hair and a round dimpled face, and is wearing a blue oxford button-down shirt. He introduces himself with his english name - Ronny, and explains that he is from Guangdong (Canton).


As everyone else gets settled and starts introducing themselves Tsung-han asks Ferndando “Are you going to eat?” Fernando replies “I already ate” but it is difficult to hear due to the cross-talk from the nearby conversation and the loud music.
“You already ate.” Tsung-han repeats after him.
“Joe?” Fernando replies
“Zhōu” Horton repeats, correcting his pronunciation, but with, to my ear, a non-standard accent that treats the “zh” more as a “z” than usual.
“Zhōu? Congee?” says Ronny
TH and Fernando repeat “Zhōu” quietly as well.
“Chinese congee? (zhongguo de zhou?)” asks Horton. [It is interesting that although chinese is a tonal language that doesn’t have upward inflection on questions, and usually requires the word “ma” at the end of yes-no questions, this clearly stated as a question]
“Chinese people’s congee? (zhongguo ren de zhou?)” Horton repeats.
“American people’s congee.” Fernando replies
“American people have congee? (meiguo ren you zhou ma?)” asks horton
“They do have it (yǒu.)”  Says TH confidently. “They have it (yǒu).”
“They have it? Really? (Yǒu. Shi ma?)” Horton says, with a note of surprise. He pronounces the “sh” in “shi” more like an “s” as is typical of Taiwanese speakers. 
TH explains in a few quick sentences the kind of congee or porridge that is common in America.
“I’ve never seen it (Méi kànguòle)” says Ronny.
“Never seen it? (Méi kànguò)” confirms Horton.
A few beats pass
“Ce-cereal?” asks Ronny.
At nearly the same time TH says “porridge?”
“That’s not it, is it? (Bu shi? Shi ma?)” asks Horton
“Rice” says Ronny, while TH repeats at the same time “porridge. Porridge”
“Rice” “rice” “it’s with rice” several people, including Fernando join in at once, who confirms “uh-huh”
After less then a beat has passed TH pivots quickly to a new topic “I’ve been to a place in china town’s north side called SoHo Festival [something, something] I forget [something, something]” it’s a bit hard to understand the end of his sentence as he speaks both quickly, quietly, and using perhaps less common language.
“What’s it called?” Horton asks.
As TH talks rapidly trying to remember what he is saying, the conversation group of what had been 4-5 people splits, with TH and Fernando continuing the conversation about the restaurant, eventually realizing it’s on “Elizabeth street” while Horton and Ronny break off into a parallel conversation in chinese. 
“How fun” says Horton. A few seconds pass, as they apparently search for topics. 
“Have you made it?” asks Ronny in a quiet voice.
“Made what?” asks Horton. 
“Porridge” says Ronny quietly
A few more seconds pass, Horton seemingly confused.
“Porridge” Ronny translates. 
“Ah.” says Horton instantly, “I get porridge. Very home-made style” [I’m not sure I hear that correctly though]
… a few seconds pass.
“Porridge” I say
“Ah, porridge. very homey” Horton says. “If I want something similar I look for rice-gruel (稀饭, a different word than was being used before)” [I probably am mis-translating this line].
“I’ve never made porridge” says Ronny.
“Really?” says Horton, “but- But the two of them are not the same, right?”
“Not the same” says Ronny.
“Porridge is relatively ugly (Zhōu bǐjiào chǒu)” says Horton.
They continue discussing the finer distinctions of rice porridge for a about 10 seconds and then Horton’s phone rings, interrupting the conversation. He pulls it out, answers “hello…. I- yeah… I… Right, right…six o’clock...” As he takes the call the flow of the conversation is somewhat interrupted.


Horton follows up with something he heard me say earlier when I introduced myself. “Why haven’t you practiced chinese at all for a year?” 
Me: “why haven’t I….?”
Horton repeats it slower:  “Why haven’t you practiced chinese at all for a year?” 
Me, hesitating: “have not…. Why haven’t I practiced, right?” I mis-speak a bit here, paraphrasing what he originally said.
Horton: “yeah that too (Yěshì)“
Me: “uhhh… I am a graduate (research) student, so…. My… I am too busy, so… I just want finish my studies and research, later I can … give… like, use more time to study chinese. But right now… I… yeah, I don’t know.” I say a bit ashamed at letting my skills slip away for so long. Changing the subject slightly I say “You know Joe, right?” I struggle to remember his chinese name “Ping... Cheng… my friend! You know Joe, right?”
“Taiwanese guy?” asks Horton
“Yeah” I reply 
“Yeah, he’s a professor” says Horton
“Right, right, right” I reply “So he tells me every day to come…” 
Horton interjects, trying to correct me “every week-” 
But I continue on “like, everybody (I misspeak here) week tells me to come to this kind of meetup.”
He corrects again “every week”
Me: “right, right, right...” I trail off. “You are also Taiwanese, right?”
Horton: “I am. … Are you too (Nǐ yěshì ma)?” He says without a hint of irony. 
Me: “I am not.”
Horton: “You are not.”
There is a sustained silence where I try to figure out what he is talking about. Fernando and Alex and talking slowly and deliberately across from us, clearly engaged in the middle of a conversation, but still pausing and speaking slowly to search their memories for the right words as they go.        
After about 10 seconds pass in silence I turn back to Horton: “So why did you want to come to this kind of meetup?”
Horton: “two reasons (Liǎng gè yuányīn)” 
I didn’t know the word for reason (yuányīn) so I repeat “two…?”
Horton: “two reasons”
Me: “two reasons”
Horton: “I come… to make friends.”
Me: “to make friends”
Horton, “and… to kill time (打发时间)”
 




I ask “Are you Taiwanese?” and they both reply in the affirmative. I ask them if they know my connection from the Thursday meetup who was also Taiwanese and liked to bring it up often “Do you know Joe? Ping Jun-Cheng?” I repeated both his American name and Chinese name. Tsung-han looked confused for a minute, saying “no, I don’t think so,” but I repeated the name again, being sure to pronounce it better this time and Horton perked up and said “oh yes! Joe! Isn’t he a teacher?” I replied: “Yes, he is. He has been bugging me to come to these meetups for a while, so here I am! I wonder how many other meetups there are like this around the city.” Tsung-han replied “yes, there are several, but this Sunday one is a bit more advanced.” 
“I see” I say, switching back into Chinese, “This one is relatively higher, uh… , higher-level,” I say rephrasing what he told me.






 Fernando starts describing different food he likes. He comes to a dish he forgot the name of and begins asking Horton and Tsung-han how to say porridge (aka congee), switching back and forth. Rather than directly saying the English word however, Fernando does his best to describe the dish in chinese. “You know, it has rice in it and you drink it...” Horton, seemingly understanding what he is trying to describe says “congee (zhōu, sounds like ‘joe’)” “Joe? Joe?” asks Fernando, in a confused voice, as Tsung-han and Horton talk over him. “Zhōu. porridge” Horton says. Understanding, Tsung-han begins describing a good place to get congee nearby, with Horton and Fernando interrupting (in chinese) and jumping in to add their opinions as well on where to get good chinese porridge in the neighborhood. Interestingly, although they are speaking louder and more animatedly than when I arrived, moving their hands as they talk, Horton, Fernando, and Tsung-han still seem to be keeping their volume to a moderate level.


At the 12:08 mark there are 16-17 members in attendance, with what looks like 3 main conversations taking place, all around the large table.


Again, very few people move seats during this entire time. Only me, Victor, and Horton.


Horton got up from the end of the table that points toward the  center of the hallway and moved toward the end closest to the windows to play a board game that involves small wooden blocks, cards, and a homemade laminated mat describing the point value of different moves. The game was brought by the couple Matt and Yu-Tse, who put it on the table very soon after they arrived, but did not take it out or set it up until about 11:50. Horton spends about 10 minutes explaining the rules in English to Matt, Yu-Tse, and Ella, the woman with European-accented English in T-shirt and jeans with a ponytail.
Horton: Pass two cards to the right...
As far as I can tell, they speak entirely in English as they play this game for the next 30 minutes. There isn’t much conversation being spoken by the attendees playing the game. People seem intent on their strategies and the roll of the dice. Most of the talking seems to be exclamations of surprise, laughter, enjoyment, and envy at unexpected plays or rolls of the dice. 


……


Around 12:00 some more late-comers straggle in in ones and twos: Ben, Kevin, Victor and Oshi. Ben, the Kenyan-American software engineer who works in a bank whom I met at the last meetup. He is dressed casually today. Kevin, is an Asian-American with a Chinese father who is trying to come to the meetup to improve his Chinese. 
Kevin is tallish, perhaps 5’9 or 5’10 but sits a bit hunched over. He is wearing a blue polo-shirt, has thin hair in a bowl cut, and a face that looks somewhat scarred by acne in the past. He looks to be around 30 years old. I see him speaking primarily to Tsung-han slowly in Chinese. Victor is a tall, thin, white New Yorker with a pointed face, with long wavy brown hair that a looks a bit like Keanu from Bill and Ted’s excellent adventure. Victor is wearing a big baggy soft Forest-green jacket. Victor’s friend Oshi was also from New Yorker, and had a similar look, thin, long, wavy red hair, and nonchalant attitude. Oshi is wearing dirty white/green adidas sneakers, and skinny dark blue jeans.


….


Fernando talks to Ben about other members in the group.
….
I sit next to Ronny for a while and help him practice english. He asks me if I am looking for work.
Me (speaking slowly): I’m looking for internships, but have not found one yet. But I have a few opportunities. A few… a few ‘tunities… a few opportunities, so I think I… I’m hopeful I will find something.
Ronny: you can upload a resume on the web - from a website…
Me: yeah.
(a few seconds pass)
Me: but it is a little difficult if im looking for only part time work - people usually want to hire someone full time, but I think if I just talk to people I can make it work. In New York there are so many opportunities.
Ronny: Actually, I’m looking for a part-time job as well.
Nick: What kind of work? Just like, anything?
Ronny: As long as it not a physical work. [he pauses] In New York, employ- employer?
Me: Employer, yeah
Ronny: They seem, you don’t have much experience, they will let you go.
Me: Of course, yeah. Do you worry about having a visa as well? Like if you don’t have a work visa-
Ronny: I do have a work Visa
Me: You do, wow, okay. So that should help alot.
(3 seconds pass)
Ronny: which school are you studying in right now? 
Me: uh… New York University.
Ronny: The tuition… the part it takes….? Uh… twelve? Oh- one hundred thousand?
Me: the tuition.
Ronny: right (dui)
Me: I’m a graduate student. I am a graduate student, so I don’t need to spend money, they give me money. They pay me to go there. Because… as a Ph- I am a PhD.
Ronny: You are a PhD. You are a graduate student? [Again, the tone in the way he says this line seems to indicate it is a question, although it is still missing the ‘ma’ character that is supposed to indicate questions].
Me: right.
Ronny: you did a masters?
Me: a PhD
Ronny: right. They pay you?
Me: yeah. The school gives me money.
Ronny, speaking quickly, sounding eager: What about a master?
Me: they pay a lot. So I get paid that way. I help to teach them.
Ronny: What about a master? When you start a master, you have to pay that on your own right?
Me: yeah. A huge-
Ronny: But a PhD, you should… they pay for you?
Me: yeah.
Ronny: I didn’t even know that.
Me: Because, like, I… I… before I came to the PhD I had a very well paying job that I had to quit. This is like a way for them to get me not to quit the PhD. 
Ronny: thats a pity. But everyone - everyone - everyone regist- study a PhD they - the school pay for them?
Me: it depends on the major
Ronny: oh
Me: It’s more common for majors like math, engineering, science where the school pays you. I think even my friends who are majors at other schools still get paid. Like linguistics gets paid a tiny bit of money. 
Ronny: It’s good to know. I didn’t even know.
Me: But it’s not a lot of money. You could make this much money working at Burger King or something.
Ronny: haha! But math, science, and…?
________________
Me: Engineering
Ronny: Engineering.
Me: Because you help the professor work. You don’t just take classes
Ronny: You help the professor do anything? And you get paid?
ME: if I help the professor do I get paid?
Ronny: do you get paid?
Me: yeah. yeah.
(a few seconds pass)
Ronny: What do you want to be?
Me: um. I… mostly want to be a professor. But maybe I will… I am deciding if that life is what I really want. I am deciding if I will go into a company or go into a startup and help them…. Um, for example, my friend called me on the phone and asked me to help him with an analytics consulting company he is thinking of launching. But who knows.
…
(several seconds pass)
Ronny: I don’t even know what I want to be.
Me: you don’t know what you want to be. [I pause]. I mean the plans always change, right? You’re like 18? Or 19? Or…?
Ronny: 24
Me: 34?!
Ronny: 24
Me: oh
Ronny: 24
Me: I am 27. So you’re doing an undergrad? Or a masters?
Ronny: I’m an undergrad student. First year.
Me: first year undergrad.
Ronny: undergrad student. First year. [he says somewhat forcefully]. Freshman
Me: either way. Undergrad means undergraduate (本科). [actually I should have said 本科生]


We move onto a new conversation.
---------


Ronny seems pretty interested in finding work himself, and getting career advice in general, even asking about different schools and boot camps.
….


Oshi told me he was just accompanying Victor, to the meetup, and that although Victor was very serious about learning Mandarin, Oshi had no interest in learning it himself. But he did tell me that he has so many friends that speak chinese or are learning chinese that he has picked up a few funny phrases like “I’m bored, give me some poison to drink.” His accent is really good for someone who doesn’t try to learn Mandarin. Oshi sits on the periphery of the main group sitting on the chair one layer out from the chairs around the main table, texting on his phone.


I also situate myself outside the main group next to Oshi so I can observe without being drawn into conversations. 


Directly in front of me Ronny, the 24-yo from Guangdong Victor talk quietly, with pauses, mostly in english. They are sitting next to each other at the table. 


After a while I move back into the main table at the end by Tsung-han who was talking with Kevin, Fernando, and Ben. Tsung-han introduces me to Kevin in chinese and then resumes their conversation in chinese without paying me much mind.


When Fernando talks he peers intensely with his green eyes and moves his hands a lot.


The people playing the game at the end of the table by the window are still speaking in english.
Yu-tse: I feel happy!
Horton: 1 ,2 3, 4, 5, 6, - this person, single is one, now you are getting one
Ella: me? Ok ok
Horton: now you get one, and one again, this person gets this one


Fernando seems to be telling a pretty long story. 
Fernando: he told me he already did it five times! five times! Yeah! Because it’s very very famous. And I think it hasn’t changed that much, but he tells me, ‘Fernando, I don’t get tired of France…’
Fernando seems pretty comfortable in the language, but still uses pretty basic vocabulary and doesn’t try to imitate a Chinese accent. Nonetheless his accent is quite easy for me as an english-speaker to understand.


At the same time, as Fernanrdo is telling this story I am participating more in a conversation with Tsung-han and Ben who was speaking in english about a journalist that was in the news who got murdered.
Me: I think that in Mexico… and in Brazil, quite frequently, journalists are killed.
Ben: heh. That’s so true.
(a second passes)
Me: huh. Really? 
Ben: Especially in Mexico, heheheh. Especially in Mexico.
Me: oh yeah.
Ben: killing them every day…. And they keep signing up. It’s very brave.
Me: oh wow, yeah.
Tsung-han: where did you come from?
Me: where did I come from? Uh… at 11:20am  




-----------
Quite late in the session a new person I call Hal joins the group, although the table is already quite full. Someone calls out “table split!”, indicated that some of us should migrate to a new table, but no one makes any effort to get up or move, and the call for breaking up the group is ignored. Hal pulls up a chair to the already very full table.


Hal is an older Asian man, perhaps in his 50s as his hair was still dark and not grey. I am not sure of Hal’s nationality or ethnicity, as he speaks with an accent in Chinese that is unfamiliar with me, and has an English accent that sound a bit like Japanese. Hal is wearing a blue shirt.
-------


As the meetup gets later, some of us who perhaps are not as fluent in Chinese (Victor, Oshi, Ben, Kevin) default to speaking English, while those that are more fluent in Chinese (Hal, Fernando, Alex) continue to talk purely in Chinese. Oshi has come fully into the group now and is no longer hanging out on the periphery, but instead of speaking english with people learning english we are chatting amongst ourselves.


Oshi: like around 120th, that area is really popular now
Victor, in reference to living in the Upper West Side: I think my space is not changing as fast as some spaces near it. Most spaces are changing, but my space is kinda the same.
Me: oh, okay. When I first moved here… I went- I can’t say this in chinese. Three- three years ago, I moved to - I lived in Brooklyn, in Bushwick, and Bed Stuy. I think - I heard many people say how it’s changing so fast. Gentrification is happening so fast.
Victor: Right. In manhattan.
Me: In Bushwick. In manhattan the, yeah, maybe not so different.
Victor: I’ve never heard that. I don’t believe that. Is that true in Brooklyn?
Oshi: I do! I’m the guy that grew up in Brooklyn and when I went back it was not the same place at all. My neighborhood on every other block and there were never high-rises when I was growing up. At least - I grew up in park slope.
Victor: I didn’t know that! [he says in a high voice]
Oshi, guffaws: shows what you know.
Me: Manhattan-centric mindset right? 
Victor, slightly flustered: well- no- he didn’t say that. Like he lives in Far Rockaway now.
Oshi: I just lived there like 5 years ago.
Victor: I had no idea! I thought you lived there forever! 
Oshi: That would suck.
We all chuckle
Me: To live in Far Rockaway?
Oshi: I do live in Far Rockaway. I went to high school in Harlem so I did a 5-mile commute there and back every day.


At this point Ronny tries to join the conversation, asking Victor what we are talking about while Oshi keeps talking to me.




Me: was it a magnet school?
Oshi: it was a private - not like a gentrification school - it was like a specialized high school. 
Me: right
Oshi: that I tested into it. I shouldn’t have gone that far.
Me: Oh. Rock-rockaway has the beach right?
Oshi: yeah, Rockaway has the beach. I work at a wine bar in the summer  that is a block away from my house. It’s like really crowded. Everyone comes down to Rockaway for a day. 
Me :  yeah
Oshi: Everyone drinks as much as they can, spends as much money as they can [he chuckles]. So its good.
Me: do you work in front of house? As a bar tender almost? 
Oshi: yeah I am a bar tender. Well I’m a student now, but I’m on spring break. But i’ve worked there for three years since I was fifteen.
Me: since you were fifteen! Was it your parent’s place?
Oshi: No, I just walked in one day and was like ‘do you need a dishwasher?’ and then I started serving drinks too. It’s good money too, I mean, um… i dont know, there’s a lot of locals in the winter time and since its so slow you don’t need anyone else to work so you can do all the cooking and the serving and there’s no one else working but you so you basically get all the day’s pay for all the jobs.
Me: right
Oshi: it’s kinda slow so it’s a good gig in the winter. But I couldn’t work all winter because I had to get a education.
Me: yeah, I’m surprised they haven’t laid everybody off in the winter time- that they still keep-
Oshi: I mean, they do - they keep the schedule really low. They only have people working full time, but i;m just working there so long, I ask them if I can work in the winter- there’s not a lot of other people that work in the winter, they’re doing other things.
Me: Oh really?
Oshi: They’re doing summer hours just so they can have a good summer and work in the- Rockaway
Me: yeah thats true
Oshi: you don’t- it’s really depressing in the Winter. You got the water on both sides… just take lots of ….
At this point we are interrupted by Victor’s question.
	Victor: we’re talking about, uh, gentrification. Gentrification. We’re talking about gentrification.
Ronny: what’s that mean?
Victor: It’s like… we have these neigborhoods where for a long time there was a lot of people there, and they see, like, their block, change, like they see starbucks and other stuff start to come in and buy out some in phases so that, like, family run businesses move out and these rich people move in um, although it affects alot of the history of the places, and a lot of people thought that, you know, this should be forbidden.
Ronny: oh, okay
Victor: because a lot of people don’t like it… first of all uh, like the rent… um… it’s high… and it’s destroying people’s homes and ….
Ronny asks a clarification question, asking what’s so bad about it, and for more nuance and Victor has a hard time answering, so they try to look the word up in a translation app.




Victor, turning to us: You guys know how to spell gentrification?




	Oshi: G-E-N-T-R-I-F-C…. Yeah you got it.
I say “I don’t know if this concept translates to Chinese. I don’t know if Chinese people think about it.” Looking at the app giving zero entries for the word “yeah, there’s no definition in the dictionary for it.”
We pause for about 15 seconds thinking of what to say before Oshi and Victor try to continue explaining it.


Hal is talking across the table with Alex in smooth chinese.


Oshi tells me he is a Native New Yorker. He came to the meetup because his friend Victor is super into it - “He’s obsessed with learning Chinese” Oshi says. Oshi says he has lots of friends who speak chinese - some even text him in chinese (using pinyin input) and he translates it so he learns it by osmosis from the people around him - e.g. he knows computer. I ask “your chinese friends text you in chinese?” He replies “no, the ones that are learning chinese.”


Oshi tells me he is visiting from his upstate school on spring break is just crashing at Victor’s place in the upper west side and decided to come and hang out. 


As I turn back to taking notes, Oshi seems not to mind and turns comfortably to playing games on his phone and listening to music through his headphones. After a few minutes Victor turns around in his chair and taps Oshi lightly on the hand with his index finger. Victor asks Oshi if he wants to be involved in the conversation. Victor says “there’s lots of english going on too and people are accommodating.” Oshi rolls his eyes and sighs, acts like its a big deal but then scoothes his chair over, puts a big smile on his face and shakes Ronny’s hand, and starts talking about his name - “it means the same thing in Irish”, and continues talking, seemingly fully engaged in the conversation.


Me: “Victor, where are you from?”
Victor: “I’m from New York City”
Ronny: “Where are you from?”
Oshi: “Same city. My parents were born around here too”
Victor: “I think we were talking about the education system …. Japan…”
Ronny: “defeat”
Victor: “shibai (failure) right? In what? A game?”




…
I turn to ask Horton about what game he is playing
Horton: “The game is paulaner [sp?] - its out of print- I just made my own copy”




A new person arrived, a man I will call Peter and he pulls up a chair at the end of the table facing the hallway, sitting next to Tsung-han. Peter looks white and looks like he is in his late 50s to mid 60s. He is wearing a pink polo shirt, and metal rimmed glasses. He looks a bit like my stereotype of an old accountant with his greying hair and crooked smile.


At this point Tsung-han and an old man I are talking in a pair, in English.


Victor and Ronny are speaking in english, and Victor is trying to explain to kenny what pescetarianism is.


Oshi tells me about his Taiwanese friend in a metal band who just texted him. Oshi tells me the only time he has ever been to China was in a 18 hour layover in Pyongyang. “Isn’t that in North Korea?” I ask “Oh, yeah, that’s right. It’s another place in china but it kinda sounds like that” Oshi replied. Oshi tells me that he was seated next to this Taiwanese guy in a metal band who he bonded with on the long flight over, as well as when they both got stuck in the same airport in China. 


At 12:50pm the people are still playing the board game and look pretty happy. No one looks that tired but some of the conversations have split up a little more, not as many people talking all together in big groups as before.


Still playing the game, Ella, the girl from Europe says “i think I lose” and she puts her hand under her chin. Yu-Tse laughs, cheerily. Ella continues “I think about how to play this game”.


Alex and old Hal are seated at the center of the table having a long conversation in relatively high-level mandarin so it is hard for me to understand. It seems like Hal is the main one carrying the conversation, essentially monologuing while Alex occasionally makes comments or clarifying questions, but is nodding along as Hal talks.
Hal is saying “so the speaking and the writing is different.. Uh so the speaking and writing is different so usually the speaking is … very complex ….” he continues on for a while in mandarin, too fast for me to really understand, before switching back to english, “so you see the characters so you say something in korea. Now I think a lot of people, with what you say it's combined together.” 
Alex asks a question in chinese, and Hal responds in english “sometimes you see the english every word but the meaning you don't know. In china its the same. It’s very easy in the short in the reading…” and they keep talking.


At this point Yu-Tse and Mark get up to leave along with Horton who is carrying his bags of food (grapes, meat, bread buns, etc.).


I turn back to listen to Hal talk to Alex, saying “now we use every sentence, so when you see this line, where you stop the sentence in different places you stop it there are different meaning, so you need to reduce the writing.” Hal’s bright alert looking eyes look closely at Alex and nods his head and while making writing gestures with his hand as he speaks in a slow hesitant manner. Hal switches to english: “The book is supposed to explain another book 2000 years ago. Confucius, very important book. So a lot of ppl if they understand the book they will write it in a way. So when I see the original book and you see the extreme book and you ask what is you are writing, now i think a lot of people cannot write this explain book. It's very interesting…. Even now people use a sentence from the early - from long ago - people say it explains something - even from the qing dynasty they say we need a change. It’s the same but the meaning is different. So sometimes confucius says you do something. You need to think about the meaning. So now we say do something don’t do something think about it. Before confucius says think 3 times is enough, just do. Before it was just think about it - do.” Then Hal switches back into hard-to-understand chinese to continue explaining.


Alex looks up words in pinyin on his phone as Hal talks in chinese and explains some history to him- the dictionary app shows Alex that one of the words he entered into has the english translation “republic”. It seems at this point the old guy is mostly giving monologues, mostly in chinese now, about history and different parts of the country. Occasionally switches into english to make sure that Alex understands. From the fragments I overhear I gather they are talking about the different between north and southern culture. Both of them are talking quite quickly and fluently. 


Victor leaves with Oshi.


Old Peter in pink leaves a minute later


Tsung-Han is talking to Kevin in English at the end of the table. Ben talks to Ronny in mixed English and Chinese.


Now there are just 6 of us left, and it is getting close to 1:00pm with no indication that the rest of the group is getting ready to leave.


Ben says to Ronny: you can use english, I’ll use chinese. What do you study? 
Ronny: Kingsboro
Ben: Kingsboro? Not queens boro! Where-
Ronny: 49th
Ben: oh, off 49th? I am a computer engineer in a bank-
Ronny: finance bank?
Ben: you know, like chase, morgan stanley
Ronny: is it easy to be a computer science engineer?
Ben: So-so (hai keyi). What do you study?
Ronny: liberal arts. Does it require a license?
Ben: If you graduate you can get hired, but you don’t need to graduate to get hired. You need to know what you are doing. [Ben says all of this in english slowly, enunciating clearly]. 
Ronny: which college did you study in?
Ben: New Jersey Tech new jersey university


I turn my attention back to Hal and Alex


Hal: we use 8, 16, 12, but 2000 year ago. Made illegal, if you do not right in the right way, you get killed. Its a law. So 2000 years. So we continue. I think if you look in the cab, with to track the distance, it’s different. 
Alex says something in reply but I cannot make it out.
Hal: UK, canada. Now it’s different. You can calculate with computer or something 
[Hal mimes writing again. Thinking to himself, Hal opens his palms showing them face up…] I think something is good communicating system. The technical system, what you're seeing in the world, before, if you are going from japan to korea how do you do it? Completely different. We are going toward the same place. Now we are going to go travel.  We each have our own-
Alex: especially in china
Hal: exactly
Alex replies again in chinese that is too rapid for me to hear.
Hal: Like the european, like the american. Some new technology, improves not very fast. Soo…. soo… [Hal hesitates] You change money, spend money, use cell phone
Alex: very easy. very easy
Hal yes if you change money, change dollars… 
And Hal continues to talk in fast chinese that I cannot understand.


1:11 
Ella, who I had not noticed stepped away to take a call after the game ended walks back over to our table talking on her cell phone. 


Tsung-Han and Kevin are still seated together at the end of the table, but are now typing on their phones not engaged in any conversation. I can see Tsung-Han is texting on Wechat. And occasionally Kevin looks around the room bored. Then Tsung-Han shows something on his phone to Kevin. Kevin asks “where is it?”. “Relatively close,” Tsung-Han replies. 


At 1:20 point about ⅔ of the people have already left and I take my leave from the group.


Interesting Patterns
* People seem to ask yes-no questions without using the “Ma” question word, with the tone of their voice even though tone is also used to differentiate between different words. This is interesting because when I brought it up to chinese speakers in the past they told me this doesn’t exist.
* People repeat each other a lot to confirm what the other person said.
* People seem interested to talk about each other's everyday lives, but switch over to their more fluent language in order to be better understood or to communicate something that they are too excited to wait to translate slowly in their head.