May 24 Transcript - Chinese Meetup
6:30
Brian: My university, everyone, in the school, every morning, yeah.  熱水


20:45


Brian: 


May 10
Guy: And in in the domain wher


April 30
A: 你常常喝咖啡嗎？(english speaker)
GG:恩 有些以為 但是不是那麼常喝 有的人他們 喝咖咖啡 我平常喜歡喝茶 (english speaker girl, polish girl)
TA：我應該多喝茶 在飯館 是喝茶 可是在家裡我應該做自己做。。。 喝茶
GG: uh, huh...
…
Nick: Do you think AI is getting more powerful? How does that make you feel?
A: It is a little disappointing in the sense that we rely more and more on black boxes.Maybe maybe we should just learn how to live with it.
Nick: That’s what we’re trying to study, how does a black box effect… or how do ppl try to unbox it.
[silence…. 4 sec]
A: 你說話很複雜，我聽不懂
TA: Yeah, it’s difficult for me to discuss these things
N: 我们可以 like...
A: How do you say AI in Chinese?
N: AI
TA: 人工智能
B: oh, 。。。對對對, 人工智能
N: 可是要是你在紐約跟中國人說話 他們要說ＡＩ
B: dui dui
A: AI 怎麼樣
對對
但是techbology 我們會說ＡＩ技術


A: 啊。。。ＡＩ技術






TA is the taiwanese american guy
Ch is the short shanghai guy who tries to sound very smart
PB is the polish guy
GG is a german girl (the polish guy’s wife?)


TA: 我害怕在將來機。。。機器人要 不知知道，like like a robots
N: oh, robots 
GG: 中文怎麼說
TA: 機器人
GG: 機器人
… long pause
TA: hahaha! 所以… AI 。。。um… you know.. 機器人
N: 如果..取代 每次人來有這個問題 - i mean - …
TA: 1900差不多 開始 
Ch: No, 1949
Background noise: yayaya
Ch: The Chinese Revolution
TA: No, I mean the Industrial Revolution. 美(2nd tone)國 revolution. 
Polish Boy (PB): No, it started in the UK i think
TA: Oh did it
GG: yeah yeah it did.
TA: Oh okay. Okay okay.
N: Is it really forward?
TA: 差不多 oh yeah 1900 以前差不多 
PB: yeah yeah.
N: 在中國嗎？
PB: 在英國 
GG: 在英國開始 
PB:對對對 
Ch: 在中國開始大概在1920 
TA: uh okay… 
Ch: 這20年以後 
TA: 不要說每次就這樣的情況 所以 因為那個機器人會 對 比較多  
Ch: 中國有 
PB: 自然直
Ch: 比較船到橋頭自然直
GG: 再說一遍 
Ch: 船到橋頭自然直
 橋 對嗎？
Ch: 橋 有這麼一個橋 
N: Dang ran
Ch: 有一個橋洞？在遠處開的時候 你不知道是不是可以fit in
PB: oh 
Ch: when you close to the bridge 
Oh, I know I know
Ch: 所以這就是
GG: 很有意思
Ch: 你在遠的地方, 你不知道會怎麼樣, 你就只能擔心. 不用擔心, 你到了跟前一定有解決方案. 對吧？
所以我們 我們 比較有較多的準備 a lot of …
Ch: 就在...以後改變


Jottings:
What we can talk about already:
* Power dynamics
* Experts vs novice
* Repetition strategy
   * When do ppl repeat or ask others to repeat
   * How do ppl learn from asking others to repeat or doing on their own
   * As a language learning strategy






在哪ㄦ
為什麼？
在全球
就像上海話  我們跟
[skip this part]
[6:34]
你知道like amazon echo, elisa echo, like chips 都是cloud compute




14:20
Laughter


我聽不懂
Ch: 我跟一個一個一個中國人說話 我說我聽不懂 請再說一遍 他說得更快，
ＰＧ 呵呵呵 
很少 很少 一般不會 一般我們知道你是不會說國語的 我們會盡可能說比較簡單標準的方式來跟你對話。
但是，有的人他們真的不能說的慢慢的簡單的
簡單的話
常常他們用的用的詞彙還是還是...uh… shortcuts 
Shortcuts 
Uhh uhh 就是簡單就好比是簡稱 
PB: what I mean to say for example was… when I want to say “now” I want to say xianzai, and then you figure out that some chinese people, they are too lazy to say xianzai because it takes too much time, so thy will just say Zai. So before I figure out whats’ happened, it’s too late.
GG: heheheh
中國人 有不同的口音 完全不一樣 
有的人我聽的懂 但是有的人我完全聽不懂。
對因為有口音，我們都很困難
你會說上海話嗎
我會我會
這非常的不一樣
就像上海話 我們跟同樣在上海出生的 說久了我也能判斷他們的家庭是來自於哪裡 說兩個小時 我就會知道他大概是哪裡來的 還是會有不一樣的 我不知道美國會不會這樣 說英文
我覺得也會這樣 我分不清處 但是 如果是你的母語 你常常會知道每個人是從哪裡來的。我是波蘭人 
Polish
GG: 你是？
ＰＢ：波蘭
Ｃh：你是？你是德國來的？
ＰＧ:我是德國人
嘿嘿嘿嘿 你也會嗎？
你還有會知道什麼？
法語 西班牙語 
你為什麼對中文有這麼多興趣？ 跟中國是想做生意？
生意是有機會
Enjoy?
photography 
幾歲？
How old is he?


幾歲？
Ok, ok


Everyone: alright, alrighty
GG: hheheh


Comments:
* Talk about a theme like an accept for a little while, then once done talk about something very random and unrelated, like what accents people have or AI and industrial revolution.
* Then start a new theme.
* Then moving on to talk to the German girl and how many languages she speaks
* Theme -> random topics for transition -> new theme
   * People suggest random topics until someone comes up with a topic that can be developed into something more substantial
* People are afraid of the awkward silent moment and search for a way to keep the conversation going
* Identity-related
   * Taiwanese vs. Chinese
   * Chinese American vs. Chinese vs. America
      * Fewer come and stay
      * Not interesting to or interested in the “Exoticness” of the other culture
   * In-group, outgroup








[59:39]
Nick, a German Girl (GG) and the Shanghainese guy (Ch), and the Taiwanese American guy (TA)
N： 我要去greece, turkey, um, like, zai. 然后我要去UK, 和Denmark。所一。。。
GG：你應該去portugal ！
N：OK。
ＧＧ：哈哈哈: 
GG: 因為你在巴西有...因為你在巴西有...什么什么
N： 對對對。 這個夏天我要去這個conferences, academic conferences不是vacaiton
。。。
CA：在歐洲你最喜歡哪個國家？
GG: 這很難說 非常難
Ch: 除了德國
GG: 不是不是
Ch: 就除了德國以外 
GG: 德國不錯可是天氣不好有點冷 冬天很冷
TA: 我去過你的地...
GG: 沒有陽太 所以歐洲的南方 西班牙 義大利 葡萄[牙] 很好的天氣和很漂亮的地方 但是有時候也是工作的情況 umm
N: 沒有 [interjecting]
GG: 沒有那麼容易。有人找不到工作 寒假的時候非常好 可是住在那裡我不知道 ...
[I just interrupt]
N:你看不看call me by your name 
GG: Call  me by your name?
N: 這個movie嗎？I mean, Have you ever heard of this movie?
Ch: 義大利的...歐 義大利的call me by your name
GG: No? No?
Ch: I just watched this movie on the flight.
N: 這是在義大利的setting 
Ch: 一個美國人去了義大利
[At this moment I am competing with this guy for the right to speak]
N:我覺得這個movie 的義大利的自然非常漂亮 非常like藍 you know, 他們的生活...
Ch: 非常漂亮的地方
N: 非常漂亮的地方


Ch: 我還去過更漂亮的地方 
N: Very slow
Ch: 非常棒，義大利有很多小的城市
N: Umm...
GG: 你認識嗎？義大利
Ch: 認識認識 我去過很多地方 我比較喜歡的一個地方是 Moldova, in the center of Italy. 城市不大 但是從來沒有感覺住在那裡是一個小城市的感覺。跟中國城市剛好反過來。中國如果你去很多城市覺，你就得很多城市很大，但是你就感覺住在一個小城市。 
N: 你覺得天氣比文化重要嗎？ 
GG:  um.. 在這兒？
N: 在...在...like 天气? Like the weather is more important than the culture?
GG: Um…. 
N: Like when you’re choosing a place to live?
GG: 是是, 但是這也很重要  因為在歐洲 冬天的時候非常冷 很不好 呵呵呵呵 一點點跟這兒的天氣一樣 但是我想，在紐約冬天的時候很有陽太 [She keeps saying YangTai for sun (which is really TaiYang). Yang Tai is balcony] 在德國沒有非常好。在德國冬天的時候umm 你看你看見陽太多星期。 
Ch: 陽光 [guessing what she is saying / Provide corrective feedback]
GG: 陽太
Ch: YangTai shenme yisi
GG: You’re not seeing the sun for several weeks, its very dark.
Everyone: Oh, 太陽,太陽
GG: For several weeks You won’t see the sun and it’s very dark.
Ch: 在這兒我覺得這兒稍微比歐州好一點
N: 在匹茲堡 在賓州 在冬天他們不會看太陽 他們也有非常cloudy weather, you know, …. 」這個like冬天 不會太冷 很depressing


Ch: 那冬天你可以去vacation 
GG: 呵呵
N: 可以可以可以
[… pause...]
N: 你打算go怎麼vacation ?
Ch: j我現在沒有時間
N: 為什麼不
GG: 呵呵呵
Ch: 呵呵呵
Ch: 過幾年吧
[… long pause...]
TA: 你有沒有時間 [to go on vacation]




Comments:
* Look at code switching
   * When do they switch to chinese vs. english
   * Researcher : Carol Myers-Scotton studied Code Switching
* People competing on who gets to talk
* “Ch” is a Shanghainese guy who is a regular at the Sunday meetups. He claims to have come from a large well-off family that moved to the US during the Communist Revolution, and lost a lot of money doing so but is still quite wealthy. He says he likes to come to these meetups to kill time.






TA: 你有沒有時間 [to go on vacation]。。。预先的
Ch：Uh，四剑我安排的工作出差
。。。
1:05:01
TA：还没有意思
Ch： The reason why I asked you about Merkel is because Merkel is very anti-China.
N: [interrupting] Really?!
Ch: Yes.
GG: Anti-China?! [she said in a surprised voice]
Ch: Yes. She started-
GG: No, She gets along with Xi JinPing
Ch: She wants to create a … [he hesitates, thinking of the word] … for trade issues-
N: A trade zone? Yeah.
GG: Yeah, trade is something. But you know, that what is happening now is that actuallyyyy Germany and China, they are almost the closest ally when it comes to Climate Change. Because with Climate change-
TA: Of course, because, uh…
GG: Yeah, yeah, yeah, but because of the US government, you know, they’re like “climate change doesn’t exist. We just ignore it.” But China is aware of it! They know something needs to be done.
Ch: But Merkel has started saying Germany needs to develop a comprehensive strategy against Chinese investment. That’s what she started saying.
GG: That’s what she said? Really?
Ch: That’s what she said.
N: Well, it’s not a problem for Germany right? ‘cause Germany…
Ch: Because Germany follows the EU, see? 
N: Yeah
Ch: It’s a central power of the EU. Without Germany there’s no EU. You know this!
GG: Yeah, yeah, yeah, I know.
Ch: It revolves around Germany!, haha.
GG: heheheh [nervous chuckle]
N: But if every country has a trade deficit, then either they’re getting investment from Germany or investment from China, right?
[no one answers]
N: Like all these Southern European countries… they cannot give Germany anything in exchange except for like... the assets, you know…
GG: oh, uh huh, uh huh.
Ch: [Changing the subject somewhat] And then there’s the Russian problem too.
GG: oh, uh huh, uh huh.
N: What is-
Ch: Change the relationship with Russia
GG: heheheheh
N: What does China have to do - Germany, China, Russia, what happened?
[few seconds of silence]
GG: No, but I still think, um, … All together um… Relations are still… very good… and and… I mean, Chinese companies, they also depend on Europe, and Europeans the depend on China so -
Ch: The Chinese, they buying up a lot of farms in Poland, they taking up-
GG: Poland?!
Ch: Yeah! Thousands and thousands of square miles, they buying up Poland!
GG: For… farming?
Ch: For farming! Chinese need good food!
GG: Oh yah…
Ch: The ship it back to - there’s a building - 
GG: Poland’s not so big, I mean, hahahahah...
N: Africa too.
TA: Yeah
Ch: Yes, yes
TA: That is a big issue for China.
Ch: I think that’s a big issue.
TA, GG: haha
Ch: They are going to buy the big, uh, the farm if it’s in Australia in, uh, Southern European… uh, in Europe.
N: The farms
Ch: They are going to buy the huge land.
GG: China.
Ch: China is interested to buy land, outside of China.
N: Outside of China
Ch: Secretly buying technology.
GG: Ah, mm. Uh, uh.
N: To secure the supply chain? Or do they need to buy all the farms?
Ch: Buy from what?
N: 为什么，为什么他们要，uh, 买很多farms?
Ch: 他们市 the chinese, population is huge.
N: Uhn. [assenting noise]
Ch: They need the food.
N: They can buy the food.
Ch: Uhn. The can buy the food from the US. But they have to compromise with the US.
N: uh-huhn
Ch: They want to compromise with, with the US, they have to own their supply chain...
GG: Uh, it’s easier when you own the land… in Africa, then you can just grow your food and import it- 
Ch: Yeah
GG: - without any customs and-
N: will Germany do this too? 
GG: hm?
N: Maybe Germany will - 
GG: No…
Ch: The Germany, their population is limited.
GG: hahaha
Ch: The China - 
GG: It’s not that big right?
Ch: - It’s huge… It’s 1.4 billion.
GG: Still, I think, I think in China, agriculture is still quite old fashioned. There’s still a lot you can do in China to improve on the agriculture business in China. 
Ch: Uh… you know China… 
GG: And there is enough land in China, there is - really big... 
Ch: China is , uh, a big country. But the land is different than the US. Uh, the farmer business is limited. I think, there is only twenty or thirty percent of China, total the nation wide, uh, can do the farmer business. 
N: Live on the farms.
GG: uh-huhn.
Ch: Because China has a lot of mountains, you cannot do the farms on the mountain side.
N: When I was there I was shocked to see like, so many so many so many tiny tiny farms. Like everybody has a tiny farm in different places.
Ch: You know, on the East Coast side, the City expands to be huge. So eats a lot of that farmer business.
N: The land…
Ch: The land. It’s very dangerous for them, right now they are worried about this issue.
GG: uhn, uhn.
N: And they’re like making electric cars. I think they are worried about oil too. They are pushing electric cars very heavily. And solar power.
GG: uh-huhn. Uh-huhn.
N: Because they import all the oil, right?
[... few seconds of silence …]


Comment:
* It is funny how these sessions kind of become a venue for each person to show off what he or she knows. And people tend to engage if they think they know something about the subject that other people don’t.


[changing the subject]
Ch: So is Germany still offering free educations to Mongolians?
N: What?
Ch: If you’re a Mongol, you can go to Germany and get a free education. So Germany wants to get involved in Mongolia. What is this? A counter against the Russians or trying to get all three fiends for China. What’s this Mongolia, Germany, relation-
GG: No, that’s, that’s very simple. Um, Mongolia has some natural goods. Some rare earth.
N: uh-hmm, uh-hmm.
GG: ...That’s extremely precious that’s used in...
N: electronics…
GG: Mobile phones, electronics, and this is why, um, Germany is investing a lot in Mongolia.
Ch: In Mongolia?!
GG: Yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah. And in addition, for some reason, I don’t know really why, but Mongolians and Germans they have a close relations. I don’t know why. But for some reason, Mongolians they know about Germany and what’s happening in Germany, and that’s very strange but it’s -
TA: [talking over her] But Mongolia’s traditionally Chinese, for many thousands of years. They’re part of the Chinese -
GG: heheheheh
TA: They were part of the Chinese - 
Ch: That’s a very sensitive topic for - 
TA: Yeah
Ch: most of Chinese
GG: heheheheh
Ch: They are very aggressive. That was horrible nation.
GG: Mongolians?!
Ch: Mongolians.
GG: Yeah…
N: Still?
Ch: So it, so it- uh...
GG: Some - some - some - some - some years ago - 
Ch: You know, most of Chinese are not real Chinese. 
GG: heheh, yeah…
Ch: Uh, and uh, I think that more than half Chinese mix with Mongolian. [his words Mongolian drops in pitch here]
GG: Yeah, probably


[1:11:26]